README.md, before:

# SenDev XAF Dashboards
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/SenDevGmbH/XafDashboards/_apis/build/status/SenDevGmbH.SenDevXafDashboards?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/SenDevGmbH/XafDashboards/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)

## Introduction
This module adds to the DevExpress XAF Dashboards module 2 new data sources:
 * C# Script Data Source
 * XAF Data Extract Data Source

### C# Script Data Source
C# Script data source allows to specify dashboard data source with C# Scripts at runtime.

### XAF Data Extract Data Source
XAF Dashboards provides with [Data Extracts](https://documentation.devexpress.com/Dashboard/115900/Creating-Dashboards/Creating-Dashboards-in-the-WinForms-Designer/Providing-Data/Extract-Data-Source) a feature that allows You to store dashboard data in an optimized format for data grouping and other dashboard operations. With data extract large amounts of data can be stored in a compact format and be quickly loaded into dashboards. For example queries with large amounts of data can execute and create data extract nightly. Prepared data extracts can then be quickly loaded into the dashboards. 

XAF Data Extract Data Source has following features:
 * Memory-optimized creation of data extracts for large datasets. 
 * Storing data extracts in the database
 * Specify Data Source with C# scripts


## Getting started
### Installing SenDev.XafDashboard packages into your application modules
We Nuget packages for multiple DevExpress versions. You can pick the matching version for Your installed DevExpress Suite by specifying a range of versions `-MinimumVersion` and `-MaximumVersion` options of the Install-Package command.

#### Platform agnostic module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaxmumumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in Module.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(Xaf.Dashboards.SenDevDashboardsModule));
```

#### Windows module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Win -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaximumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in WinModule.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(Xaf.Dashboards.Win.SenDevDashboardsWinModule));

```

#### Web module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Web -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaximumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in WebModule.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(DevExpress.ExpressApp.Dashboards.Web.DashboardsAspNetModule));
```

### Creating a Script Data Source
Start Application. Goto Dashboards and click on "New". Select "C# Script Data Source":
![Select C# Script Data Source](images/SelectCSScriptDataSource.png)

Click Next and specify the script:
![Specify Script](images/SpecifyScript.png)

You can use following script template:

```C#
using System;

using System.Linq;
using DevExpress.Xpo;	

using SenDev.DashboardsDemo.Module.BusinessObjects;
using SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Scripting;		


public class Script
{
    public object GetData(ScriptContext context)
    {
        return context.Query<OnlineSales>().Take(1000);
    }
}


```
## Development

* Contoso BI Demo DataSet: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=18279

Commit message:

- README.md: Added XAF Data Extract Data Source description

README.md, after:

# SenDev XAF Dashboards
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/SenDevGmbH/XafDashboards/_apis/build/status/SenDevGmbH.SenDevXafDashboards?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/SenDevGmbH/XafDashboards/_build/latest?definitionId=1&branchName=master)

## Introduction
This module adds to the DevExpress XAF Dashboards module 2 new data sources:
 * C# Script Data Source
 * XAF Data Extract Data Source

### C# Script Data Source
C# Script data source allows to specify dashboard data source with C# Scripts at runtime.

### XAF Data Extract Data Source
XAF Dashboards provides with [Data Extracts](https://documentation.devexpress.com/Dashboard/115900/Creating-Dashboards/Creating-Dashboards-in-the-WinForms-Designer/Providing-Data/Extract-Data-Source) a feature that allows You to store dashboard data in an optimized format for data grouping and other dashboard operations. With data extract large amounts of data can be stored in a compact format and be quickly loaded into dashboards. For example queries with large amounts of data can execute and create data extract nightly. Prepared data extracts can then be quickly loaded into the dashboards. 

XAF Data Extract Data Source has following features:
 * Memory-optimized creation of data extracts for large datasets. 
 * Storing data extracts in the database
 * Specify Data Source with C# scripts


## Getting started
### Installing SenDev.XafDashboard packages into your application modules
We Nuget packages for multiple DevExpress versions. You can pick the matching version for Your installed DevExpress Suite by specifying a range of versions `-MinimumVersion` and `-MaximumVersion` options of the Install-Package command.

#### Platform agnostic module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaxmumumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in Module.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(Xaf.Dashboards.SenDevDashboardsModule));
```

#### Windows module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Win -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaximumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in WinModule.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(Xaf.Dashboards.Win.SenDevDashboardsWinModule));

```

#### Web module
Install the package with following command in the Visual Studio Package Manager Console 
```Console
Install-Package SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Web -MinimumVersion 18.2.6 -MaximumVersion 18.2.6.65535
```

Add following line in the InitializeComponent method in WebModule.Designer.cs:
```C#
this.RequiredModuleTypes.Add(typeof(DevExpress.ExpressApp.Dashboards.Web.DashboardsAspNetModule));
```

### Using Script Data Source
Start Application. Goto Dashboards and click on "New". Select "C# Script Data Source":
![Select C# Script Data Source](images/SelectCSScriptDataSource.png)

Click Next and specify the script:
![Specify Script](images/SpecifyScript.png)

You can use following script template:

```C#
using System;

using System.Linq;
using DevExpress.Xpo;	

using SenDev.DashboardsDemo.Module.BusinessObjects;
using SenDev.Xaf.Dashboards.Scripting;		


public class Script
{
    public object GetData(ScriptContext context)
    {
        return context.Query<OnlineSales>().Take(1000);
    }
}


```

### Using XAF Data Extract Data Source

First, we must create a data extract. Goto _Dashboard Data Extract_ Navigation Item. Click On "New". Enter a data extract name and the script. You can use the same template as for the Script Data Source above. Then Click on _Save & Close_. In the list view use the "Update Data" button to create data extract: 

![Update Data](images/UpdateDataAction.png | width=50)

After the data extract is created, we can use it in a dashboard. Goto dashboards, click on new. 
In the data source window select "XAF Data Extract":
![XAF Data Extract](images/SelectXAFDataExtract.png)

On the next page You can select the data extract, You created previously:
![XAF Data Extract](images/SelectDataExtract.png)

Then click on "Finish". Your Data Exctract Data Source is ready!



## Development

* Contoso BI Demo DataSet: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=18279
